[Music]
you know your body is an only your
temple it's a veritable chamber of
secrets let's discover them all together
let's just start them fat joke is so old
it has moss on it let's go if you
decided to count all those numerous
nerve cells in your brain it would take
you up to 3,000 years when your brain
sends messages to different parts of
your body
the signals travel along your nerves at
a speed of up to 270 miles per hour the
average person consumes the weight of
seven African elephants in their
lifetime
no wonder next fact then we spend about
four years eating speaking of spending
time blinking takes about a tenth of
your waking hours all in all we spend
40% of our life with the eyes closed
most of it being asleep in a single day
blood in your body travels half the
distance around the earth if you were to
collect all the skin cells in the
atmosphere it would amount to a billion
tons that's because every human sheds
about nine pounds of skin cells per year
a just call me flaky the average human
has around 100,000 hairs on their head
without cutting the hair would grow up
to forty feet in length during your
lifetime human eyes can distinguish over
10 million colors about a quarter of all
your bones are in your feet humans can
regenerate cartilage in their joints
researchers call it our inner salamander
bones are five times harder than steel
but rather brittle at the same time you
breathe about 20,000 times a day
probably accounts for all that hot air
now when I said that you started
noticing your breathing yeah you did
prove me wrong in the comments there are
more than 1,000 genes that define how
good we are at studying and learning if
we spend too much time away from other
people we get more prone to inflammatory
diseases
there's an area in the brain that
scientists believe can be turned on and
off to release stress brain structure
changes every time we learn something
new birthmarks can be of many different
colors one of them blue although there
are only four blood types there are as
many as 36 blood group systems in humans
there are people who can sleep 4 or even
3 hours per day and feel perfectly
rested I'm not one of those tiny
harmless mites called demodex live in
almost every person's eyelashes well
that's just creepy our ears grow a
hundredth of an inch per year throughout
our lives so get out your calculators
and determine how many years you'd need
until your earlobes touch the floor like
Dumbo the average number of beats your
heart does per year is 35 million when
you scratch an itch your brain thinks
the body is hurt and switches its
attention from the edge as you age you
gradually lose the sense of taste up to
30 percent by the age of 60 the average
person eats about 35 tons of food
throughout their life the speed of a
sneeze is on average it's 100 miles per
hour hair on your body protect you from
insects by warning of their presence on
you
really insects leave presents for you
every person has stripes on their body
called blasco's lines and they only
become visible when something's wrong
because of overall healthcare
improvement our nails now grow faster
than a half a century ago lips are the
most sensitive part of your body with
over a million nerve endings and the
most vulnerable - there's a name for the
dip between your upper lip and nose it's
the philtrum and the tissue that
connects your tongue to the floor of
your mouth is called the frenulum a
great name for an oral surgeon philtrum
frenulum MD
your lips also don't sweat because they
don't have sweat glands you can survive
and live a pretty normal life without
one of each of your paired organs your
organs slightly changed their positions
when you ride a roller coaster does all
the barfing have much to do with that
during a ride your body also thinks it's
being poisoned which is why you feel
sick
aha you don't react to smells while
you're asleep and don't even feel them
their scientific proof that our brain is
better at learning in the evening
scientists believe that the umbilical
cord is the very first toy for the yet
unborn child yeah my mom said it felt
like I was jumping rope in their human
tears and saliva contain enzymes that
can help treat various diseases a
marathon runner spends as much energy
per day as a soon-to-be mother there's a
limit to our body's energy expenditure
it's two and a half times the energy we
spend while resting there's another
organ inside our skin that's responsible
for feeling pricks and pressure to the
skin some people can navigate using
magnetic fields of the planet just like
birds bacteria living in your gut can
slow down aging if kept healthy
fingerprints are not entirely unique
there's a 1 to 64 billion chance that
your fingerprints are similar to someone
elses all bones inside the human body
can regenerate except your teeth humans
have the same amount of hair all over
their bodies as chimpanzees ours are
just not so visible you read 10 to 30
percent faster when holding a paper book
not a phone or an e-reader a couple of
minutes before you begin exercising at a
gym your heart rate goes up in
anticipation your muscles normally use
about 60% of their power but in an
emergency these limits can be pushed by
a lot you can only taste food when your
tongue is wet and if you're out of
saliva
you won't taste a thing when you sleep
in an unfamiliar place one hemisphere of
your brain stays more a week helping you
look out for trouble your nose gets
hotter when you lie which is aptly
called the Pinocchio effect although
yawning is contagious by itself we're
much more likely to yawn together with
our clothes people our brain is 60% fat
which is why it tries it's best to make
you walk off a healthy diet a mosquito
bite can help you get rid of a bruise on
your skin yeah try to get a mosquito to
land in just one place all wait your
little finger makes up for half your
hand strength the tiniest bone in your
body is in your middle ear it's called a
stirrup and it's just 1/10 of an inch
long different smells can affect our
hair making it grow faster or slower or
even temporarily change how they look
you glow a little bit imperceptible to
the human eye with the peak of this
glowing being at about 4 p.m. there's a
bone called fab Ella in the legs of
almost half the people on earth which is
there to reduce friction in our knees
when your heart races for a short time
it's good for your immune system the
cornea of your eyes is the only part of
your body that receives oxygen directly
from the air your lungs get darker over
time especially if you live in a big
city your tongue has a factory receptors
that is it can feel smells as well as
your nose humans can live even with just
half of their brain
hey no comments no comments you can
train to be either a night owl or an
early riser it's just a matter of habit
the smell of high-calorie food can make
you less hungry if you smell it for
about 2 minutes the sense of taste
weakens when you eat in an uncomfortable
position your stomach completely renews
its lining every couple of days not to
eat through itself your skin gets
totally
about every month gradually shedding all
of its 300 million skin cells skin is in
fact the largest organ of your body
weighing up to 12 pounds when you move
your eyes too quickly the brain will
process the image in such a way that you
don't notice the movement itself you
might COFF when cleaning your ears
because you touch the vagus nerve
connecting many of your organs including
ears and throat your thumbs have their
own names mine are Mike and Bob the one
on your hands is Pollux and on your feet
is hallux yes the thumb on your foot
really the big toe your immune system
doesn't know your eyes exist so they're
on their own if you count the number of
cells in your body you'll find out
you're more bacteria than human your
gums heal much faster than any other
part of your skin
even if there's only a quarter of your
liver left in your body it will
eventually regrow to its original size
humans can outrun almost any other
animal in long distances this is the way
our ancestors used to hunt you exhale
your body fat no I didn't make that up
the small intestine is four times longer
than the large intestine there are two
vowels in bowels there are no muscles in
your fingers because they're controlled
by tendons in your forearms if you eat
too much carrot the pigment within it
may make your skin orange yeah I won't
go there if you lose your hearing it
will strongly affect your sense of
balance the same applies to your
eyesight with your eyes closed you'll
easily lose balance glabella is the name
for that small patch of skin between
your eyebrows boy that's a good
icebreaker you have a love like LaBella
humans are one of the most complex
species in the world yet amoeba have
hundreds of times more genes
than us your eyes have quite a few blind
spots but the brain fills them in so you
have a clearer image your stomach has
lots of microplastics in it at any given
time there's a gene in the human body
that's called sonic hedgehog true you
can see your nose all the time you just
preferred not to notice it
you also swallow saliva all the time
without thinking about it and your
tongue doesn't properly fit in your
mouth but you mostly ignore it until you
accidentally bite it well I hope that's
enough for uncomfortable truths right
now so hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]